# CLIR (Cross-Language Information Retrieval) Project
CLIR is a sophisticated information retrieval system that leverages advanced natural language processing and machine learning techniques to facilitate efficient cross-language information retrieval and analysis.

## Overview
The CLIR project encompasses various components designed to enhance the accessibility and usability of information across linguistic boundaries. It includes:

A QnA system utilizing pre-trained HuggingFace Transformer models for accurate question answering.
Topic modeling using Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) to uncover underlying themes in documents.
Multimodal capabilities for Optical Character Recognition (OCR) to detect handwritten content within PDF documents using ResNet.
Cross-language translation using the Goslate API and language detection techniques.
Next-word prediction employing LSTM networks trained on uploaded PDF documents.
### Features
- Question and Answer System: Accurately answers user queries based on uploaded documents.
- Topic Modeling: Identifies key topics within documents to provide insights.
- Cross-Language Translation: Translates content between languages seamlessly.
- Next-Word Prediction: Predicts the next word in a sequence for smoother interaction with document content.

## Installation
- Clone the repository:
` git clone <repository-url>`
- Install dependencies:
``` pip install -r requirements.txt```

## Usage
* Upload PDF documents to the system for analysis.
* Utilize the various functionalities provided by the system, such as question answering, topic modeling, and language translation.
* Explore insights and recommendations generated by the system based on the uploaded documents.
## Contributing
* Contributions are welcome! Please open an issue to discuss potential changes or submit a pull request with your enhancements.

## Acknowledgements
Thank you to the developers of HuggingFace Transformers, Goslate API, and other libraries and APIs used in this project.
